hi I'm Mitch Gallagher I'm the editorial
director here at Sweetwater and this is
the Creation Station tower Ellie
computer I've had a chance to spend a
couple weeks with this computer in
sweetwater labs putting it through all
kinds of tests and I have to tell you
the value of this machine offers and the
power it can produce is simply amazing
this computer is ideal for any level
studio you might be working in whether
it's at home a project studio
professional studio and in fact this
computer makes a great choice for a
school music lab as well the Creation
Station tower LED comes from Sweetwater
with a pentium dual-core processor a
large internal hard drive and a generous
amount of RAM you have all the power you
need to create music from the moment you
turn it on during the past few weeks we
put the creation station tower le
through a battery of tests in sweetwater
labs and the performance of this machine
is simply astounding to start with we
wanted to see how many tracks we could
record simultaneously with the tower l
leave the tracking tests were conducted
at 96 kilohertz 24-bit resolution using
form 0 to 24 i/o interfaces the tower le
was able to record 96 mono tracks
simultaneously for 60 minutes at that
resolution we wanted to test how the
tower le performed in a mixdown
situation we created a session in sonar
with 18 stereo audio tracks at 44.1
kilohertz 24-bit resolution we added 90
bands of eq then we added 90 bands of
multiband compression to push things
even further we added five instances of
the perfect space convolution reverb the
tower early performed like a dream to
see how much DSP power the computer
could provide we installed 34 instances
of cakewalk sonar perfect space
convolution reverb the tower rally had
no problem at all running all those
instances virtual instruments like
synthage e ivory and fxpansion BF d 2
point 0 can be very demanding on a
computer we set up a session with two
instances of ivory installed where the
CPU usage topped out at only thirty one
percent and we were using two completely
separate independent fully loaded pianos
in that case next we loaded up BF d 2
point 0 and an instance of ivory cpu
usage still only peaked out at
sixty-five percent there was still
plenty of power available for tracking
or using other plugins now you could go
out and purchase an off-the-shelf
computer for your studio and you
probably achieve ok results but with the
Creation Station tower le you're getting
a machine that's been optimized for
music production it's whisper quiet in
fact I've had it in my control room when
I've been recording with open
microphones and I wasn't picking up any
noise at all all the components are hand
selected they are
texture is top of the line all to
provide you with the maximum amount of
production power possible like all the
creation stations the tower le is backed
by years of experience building
computers here at sweetwater in addition
to our incomparable tech support and the
creation station Resource Center which
is available to you 24 7 online for
complete details on the tower le check
out the Creation Station microsite and
be sure to download the white paper that
we created on our sweetwater labs
results from all the tests that we did I
think you'll find it very interesting
and you'll be amazed at the performance
of this machine if you have questions
give your sweetwater sales engineer a
call they'll be happy to discuss the
machine with you tell you everything you
need to know about it